I’m gonna help build you a custom workout program, step-by-step! 

After all, a workout should be developed around a person’s training age, goals, injury history, free time, and available equipment, not to mention things you ENJOY doing!

Considering all those factors, it’s easy to overcomplicate this process. There are a seemingly infinite number of exercises, sets, reps, and programs to choose from. Don’t worry – together, we’ll cut through the noise and get to the good stuff.

Now, if you’re somebody that wants to skip all of that, and JUST be told what exactly to do: 

We build customized workouts for our Online Coaching Clients and would love to have you. We get to know your story: your goals, challenges, and lifestyle. Then we develop a workout plan specific to your schedule and needs.
Now, if you’re more of a “figure this stuff out on my own” kind of person – we’re going to dig into how to build your own workout plan today!

We’ve also created a free resource you can take with you, Strength Training 101: Everything You Need to Know, which covers all of this stuff in a single guide. You can download it here:
As Coach Staci lays out in the video above, we need to answer a few key questions when designing a workout:

QUESTION 1: What are your goals?

Are you trying to lose weight? Awesome.
Are you trying to bulk up or build muscle? Great.
Are you preparing for your first 5k? Swell.
Whatever your goals are, it’s good to write them down and be aware of what you’re trying to accomplish.

These goals will shape HOW you build your workout.

An effective way to create goals is by using the SMART method, which stands for specific, measurable, attainable, relevant, and timely.[1]

Specific – Specifically state what is to be accomplished. For example, “I want to gain 5 pounds of muscle.” (In this article we’ll cover how to build a workout to help you lose weight, build muscle, and get stronger. If you have specific goals like getting your first pull-up, getting your first push-up, or running your first 5k, we have articles covering each of these in detail.)
Measurable – Find a way to measure your progress.  For example, you will need body composition equipment to assess your fat and muscle mass.
Attainable – Your goals should be realistically attainable. For example, a realistic rate of muscle gain is up to 0.5 pounds per week. To gain 5 pounds of muscle, 10 weeks would be an attainable starting point.
Relevant – Your goals must relate to your interests, needs, likes/dislikes, and abilities.  Another thing to remember is that your goals need to be generated by you and you alone! For example, if you don’t care about gaining 5 pounds of muscle, or aren’t quite sure how this will benefit your life, then this isn’t a great goal for you!
Timely – Your goals must have a timeline for completion.  If your goal is to gain 5 pounds of muscle then a reasonable end-point should be at minimum 10 weeks.
If you are struggling with your goals, revisit the SMART framework and see if you can tweak your goals to work better for you.

QUESTION 2: How much time can you devote to exercise?

If you can do an hour a day, that’s fantastic.

But maybe you have a wife or husband, three kids, a dog, two jobs, and no robot butler…
…then maybe you only have thirty minutes, twice a week.

That’s fine too!

In the past 15 years of working with folks from all walks of life, we’ve realized there’s a warped sense of HOW much working out is needed to achieve your goals. For many of our 1-on-1 coaching clients, working out 2 to 4 times per week for 30 to 45 minutes is PLENTY to see some serious progress. (And as Staci mentioned in the video above, even 1 workout per week can work, especially for beginners!)

Another key thing to remember: your workout doesn’t have to happen all at once! According to the American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM), if you accumulate three 10-minute bouts of exercise throughout the day to total 30 minutes of exercise, then that is as effective as someone who does one 30-minute bout of exercise.[2]

Now, no matter how much time you have, developing the most efficient workout is crucial.

Why spend two hours in a gym when you can get just as much accomplished in 30 minutes, right?

Here’s the good news: weight training is the fat-burning prize fight victor, and efficiency rules all.

As Staci shows here, keep your arms vertical (as much as you can).
So whether you are building muscle or looking to lose weight, a strength training workout will get you the results you’re after (when combined with the right eating strategy!)

While we’re talking about time, let me quickly mention something important:

Proper expectations!

As we cover “How Fast Can I Get the Body I Want,” make sure you are thinking about your journey with a realistic timeline:

